.TH FSTR 1 2025-04-06 "FSTR 0.1.0"
.
.SH NAME
.P
fstr \- substitute placeholders in strings
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.
.SY fstr
<str> [<name> <replacement> ...]
.YS
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
There are times when a shell script needs to allow the user to set custom string values that may include variable content. \fB\%fstr\fR makes use of named placeholders that can be included in a string and substituted with computed values at a later point in the script.
.
.TP
<str>
A string with placeholders.
.sp
The placeholder format is:
.
.RS
.TP
(1)
\%%<name>
.sp
or
.TP
(2)
\%%{<name>:-<fallback>:+<override>}
.sp
\%:-<fallback> and \%:+<override> are optional and may go in any order.
.
.P
\%<name> is a placeholder name to match a \%<name> defined via command line arguments. It may consist of one or more alphanumeric characters and underscores.
.sp
\%<fallback> and \%<override> are also strings with placeholders just like \%<str>.
.sp
\%<fallback> is substituted if command line arguments do not define \%<name> and its \%<replacement>.
.sp
\%<override> is substituted instead of \%<replacement> allowing to, for instance, insert extra characters next to \%<replacement>.
.sp
In strings with placeholders \%(<str>, \%<fallback>, \%<override>), \%'\\', \%'%', \%'{', \%':', and \%'}' are special characters. They can be escaped with backslashes \%('\\') to represent their literal values.
.RE
.
.TP
\%<name>
A placeholder name. May consist of one or more alphanumeric characters and underscores.
.
.TP
\%<replacement>
A placeholder replacement. This is a literal string\~\(em unlike \%<str>, \%<fallback>, and \%<override> which are strings with placeholders.
.
.SH FILES
.
.TP
fstr.lua
The main Lua script.
.TP
fstr
A shell wrapper for 'fstr.lua'. 
.TP
tools/generate-bash-function
Outputs a Bash function based on 'fstr.lua'.
.
.SH AUTHOR
.P
Alex Rogers \%<https://github.com/\:linguisticmind>
.
.SH HOMEPAGE
.P
\%<https://github.com/\:linguisticmind/\:fstr>
.
.SH COPYRIGHT
.P
Copyright © 2025 Alex Rogers. License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later \%<https://gnu.org/\:licenses/\:gpl.html>.
.P
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it. There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
